male humpback whales repeat each other's
songs and add to them
so they become ever more complex and
beautiful showing off their memory as
well as sheer volume
listening carefully to this song is a
female humpback whale she's here with
last year's calf and is ready to
conceive another one
he stopped singing and follows her he
may sing to her again but not if he
thinks other males are close by they
start to get to know each other it's an
old-fashioned slow motion once such
beautiful movement is rarely seen dance
in the animal world is little understood
but they're courting ballet is about to
become short
rival males have detected that something
is going on they arrive in force a mob
on the dance floor set on disruption
each male tries to get beside the female
and to intimidate the others
the 35-ton males are set on a fight
animals that can seem so tender in a
moment become so aggressive the mating
game has become a battle
they smash into our they tail slap and
better
most of this is just shown throwing
their wake up
it's over the biggest male has won